MERIDIAN / MOTUSBANK MOBILE BANKING REDESIGN
Case study deck, 21 slides. Extracted verbatim from the source PDF
(public/meridian-case-study.pdf) with pdftotext -layout.

Verbatim. The deck names the product "Motusbank" where the site names the
client "Meridian"; that difference is preserved here because this is a real
document. See lib/sources/README.md.

════════ PAGE 1 ════════
PAS T   W OR K
════════ PAGE 2 ════════
                                                            MERIDIAN
Background
Motusbank is a digital bank geared towards Millennials and Gen Z and is a subsidiary of
Meridian Credit Union.
════════ PAGE 3 ════════
                                       TEAM
Area VP                                       Product Designer
Provided guidance on roadmap.                 • Collected data from data team and ran
Communicated progress to executives.             surveys
Provide resources and removed roadblocks.     • Assisted in shaping the design and product
                                                 strategy
                                              • Ran internal workshops
Senior Product Manager                        • Helped create user stories
Product Manager
                                              • Created wireframes and information
                                                 architecture
                                              • Designed UI
                                              • Held and facilitated reviews
5 Developers                                  • Built prototypes
                                              • Conducted user testing
                                              • Worked closely with developers during
                                                 handoff
════════ PAGE 4 ════════
                                                      OLD DESIGN
Insights from tellers and
previous surveys
• In-app navigation was confusing and broken
• Primary flows were confusing
• Overall UI was visually unappealing to the target
  demographic
• Missing key features that millennials look for in
  banking app, such as investing and borrowing/credit
  cards
• Lacked the option to login via Face ID
════════ PAGE 5 ════════
       OLD DESIGN
           Confusing navigation
                              Information overload
       No way back
Key products missing
════════ PAGE 6 ════════
                   OLD DESIGN
Poor wayfinding throughout app   poor hierarchies and
                                   lacking structure
           Confusing verbiage
════════ PAGE 7 ════════
                                                              APP STORE REVIEWS
App is fine, the look is not                                                                 Looks ok but bad UX
App is okay but desperately needs a revamp, the colour scheme and the layout is not          Seems like there hasn’t been much thought or investment in how the app works but
pleasing to the eye. It’s like it was thrown together quickly last minute. The app should    more focus on how it looks. Had high hopes that motus would have a better
make you excited to look at your personal finances, but every time I open it I wish I        experience than the meridian app but it’s the same app with different branding. For an
could change the entire look                                                                 online only bank the digital touchpoint is so important but it doesn’t leave me very
                                                                                             confident in their offering. Hey at least it’s free...
Typical Bank App
Just started messing around with the service, but overall the look of the app left me        Could be better
underwhelmed. The functionality seems good (although the app feels a little slower           - Have to log out in order to use the Contact Us option. This needs to be present
than other bank apps) but the website layout and design is far superior.                     EVERYWHERE. This includes an easy link to a branch or ATM near me.
                                                                                             - Have to log out in order to use the various calculators and see other MotusBank
Ok                                                                                           products.
App is okay functional wise but kinda annoying to look at in comparison to RBC’s app
(RBC is nicer and had a better layout)                                                       Please, stay far away from this!
                                                                                             Wow, I don’ know where to start. The appealing of no fee accounts and hi interest
App shutting down                                                                            saving account do not worth the lack of services you will get with this bank. The app is
Interface seems very outdated and everytime I try to sign in, the app glitches and shuts     not what you expect when you have in mind online banking. It’s poorly designed, bulky
down. I see it was just updated a few days ago, I hope they fix this issue and make the      and very slow. Each time you try to navigate in the interface, theres a waiting time of
interface more modern.                                                                       about 5sec on each click.
Nothing special.
The app seems very basic and cheap.The main account screen is very cluttered and
overwhelming when you have a few accounts.
Face ID missing
Please add Face ID login option. Currently there’s just option for touch id (finger print)
════════ PAGE 8 ════════
                 OTHER KEY DATA & KPI’S
Data Team Findings                   Board KPI’s
• Reviewing transactions             • Improve app store ratings and meet
                                       the following KPIs:
• Paying bills
                                     • Onboard new members;
• Depositing cheques
                                     • Keep members logging in;
• Paying several bills and sending
  several e-transfers in the same    • Facilitate opening products on the
  session                              app
• Low user engagement
════════ PAGE 9 ════════
SOLUTION
           Demo
                  Demo
════════ PAGE 10 ════════
MAKING IT FUN
════════ PAGE 11 ════════
MAKING IT FUN
════════ PAGE 12 ════════
PROCESS
════════ PAGE 13 ════════
PROCESS
════════ PAGE 14 ════════
PROCESS
════════ PAGE 15 ════════
PROCESS
════════ PAGE 16 ════════
USER TESTING
════════ PAGE 17 ════════
                                  USER TESTING FEEDBACK
Key Feedback
- Removed recency and alphabetical lists (by default sorted by alphabet)
- Remote cheque deposit moved from transfer into own section.
- Removed shortcuts.
- Updated confusing iconography.
- Customers didn’t notice amount field at the top of the screen. Moved amount further down on page flow.
- Confusion around camera section. Name changed from more, to apps, to camera.
════════ PAGE 18 ════════
BETA TEST WITH 546 USERS
════════ PAGE 19 ════════
                                                              UPDATED REVIEWS
New app is beautiful
The new app is finally competitive with the big five. Now we just need Apple Pay and
Visa/MasterCard debit :)
After the long waited update, app looks gorgeous
Well done Motusbank
Redesign: Updated rating
New app looks great. Too bad I’m no longer a customer because I thought the previous app
was abandoned after 9 months of no updates. But now I might try it again in the future. Great
to see incorporation of feedback.
Pleasant to use
I much prefer this new redesigned app to the previous one. I continue to look forward to
further refinement and feature upgrades but this is a terrific upgrade to start.
════════ PAGE 20 ════════
Adoption
Meridian adopted the new design patterns across all mobile
products.
════════ PAGE 21 ════════
                                       IMPACT
Impact:
Used by 370,000 customers
Helping manage $26 billion in assets
