EDWIN SOCRATES LARA

edwinsocrateslara@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/edwinsocrateslara
www.edwinsocrates.com


PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

Highly accomplished Senior Product Designer with 10+ years of experience
specialising in AI-driven user experiences, conversational design, and agentic
workflows. Adept at translating complex business goals into intuitive, elegant,
and high-impact user experiences driving digital innovation across workforce
development, e-commerce and fintech. Deep expertise in user-centered design,
developing robust design systems, and crafting scalable product strategies.


SKILLS & METHODOLOGIES

Claude Code, Claude Design, Supabase, Github, Vercel, Anthropic API, Open AI
API, Hotjar, v0, Lovable, Aura Build, Figma, Shadcn, Maze, UserTesting,
Useberry, Lottie Lab, Magic Animator, Jitter, Miro, Design Thinking,
Information Architecture, Design Systems, User Research, Prototyping, A/B
Testing, Accessibility, Agile/Scrum, Product Strategy, UX Strategy


EXPERIENCE

FutureFit AI — Toronto, Ontario
Lead Product Designer (Contract)
Oct 2025 – Present

Building an AI-powered workforce development platform that helps businesses and
governments guide unemployed and underemployed people toward meaningful
opportunities. Building data driven user-testing and research practices to
deeply understand B2G, B2B, and B2C users. Designing chat driven UX and agentic
AI experiences that enhance workforce development. Creating an AI-compatible
design system using design tokens and Shadcn, for use in AI development tools,
such as V0, Lovable, and Claude Code.


Complex NTWRK — Toronto, Ontario
Lead Product Designer
Apr 2022 – Oct 2025

Spearheaded the design and launch of the "Auctions" feature, directly
contributing to 63% of company revenue and achieving 23% quarterly growth, a
172% increase in chat messages per show, and 5-minute increase in average show
watch time. Designed and iterated the Seller Dashboard, a critical product
management and order fulfillment tool utilized by 400+ sellers to process
106,000+ orders, generating over $10.5 million in total revenue. Led the
end-to-end design integration during acquisition of Complex, merging e-commerce
and media into a unified platform.


Super.com — Toronto, Ontario
Senior Product Designer
Nov 2021 – Apr 2022

Led the UX design for SuperCash credit-building cashback card, achieving
50,000+ cards issued within 7 months of launch. Shipped MVP of unified "super
app," integrating hotel booking, e-commerce and financial services post-rebrand
to Super.com.


Backbase — Toronto, Ontario
Senior Product Designer
Nov 2020 – Nov 2021

Directed the full lifecycle UX/UI and technical integration of Backbase's
platform across NA and EU financial institutions, customizing solutions for
regional compliance and needs. Facilitated cross-functional teams (development,
product, compliance) to navigate complex integration challenges, ensuring the
delivery of scalable and user-centric digital banking solutions.


Meridian Credit Union — Toronto, Ontario
Senior Product Designer
May 2019 – Nov 2020

Led the redesign of the Meridian Credit Union mobile app for 370,000+ users,
significantly enhancing usability, engagement and improving retention.
Established a comprehensive IA and design system to ensure a cohesive and
user-friendly digital banking experience. Conducted extensive user-centric
research, including user testing and surveys, and analyzed key data to inform
design decisions and understand specific consumer banking behaviors.


Contracting — Toronto, Ontario
Product Designer
Dec 2015 – May 2019

Fintech: Bank of Montreal: Led the end-to-end redesign of the bank's entire
public website and core navigation to better direct users to the bank's
products. Toronto-Dominion Bank: Led redesign initiatives for MBNA credit card
application process, enhancing user experience and optimizing the user's credit
card application journey. Viafoura: Spearheaded the design of a commenting and
chat tool utilized by USA Today, The Telegraph, The Globe and Mail, CBC, The
Independent, and Dow Jones and many more to help foster community engagement on
their websites. Developed a data segmenting and insights tool that tracks user
behaviour and engagement to help media publishers understand user preferences.
Volkswagen: Conceptualized and designed a car comparison tool for Volkswagen
that serves over 112,000 customers per month to date.


EDUCATION

Graduate Diploma, Interactive Design
CFC Media Lab, Toronto, Ontario, Canada

Certificate, Graphic Design
Toronto School of Art, Toronto, Ontario, Canada

Diploma, Advertising
Sheridan College, Oakville, Ontario, Canada
